indexmenu_n_2

== Install Linux Plugins

After releasing OpenCPN 4.0, the plugins are being migrated to the
official OpenCPN PPA repository.

=== Ubuntu / Debian

To configure the your system to use the official repository, follow the
instructions at
link:../getting_started/opencpn_installation/ubuntu_ppa.html[ubuntu_ppa]

After adding the repository, you can use the Software Center to install
the OpenCPN plugins as any other software package or use the command
line tools

*sudo apt-get update +
sudo apt-get install opencpn-plugin<PLUGIN_NAME>*

where *<PLUGIN_NAME>* is the name of the plugin. For example, to install
the WMM plugin, the complete commad will be:

*sudo apt-get install opencpn-plugin-wmm*

However there may be some plugins that do not follow this nomenclature
such as:

*sudo apt-get install oesenc-pi +
sudo apt-get install oernc-pi*

Check the correct name on the
https://opencpn.org/OpenCPN/info/downloadplugins.html[download page].

=== Note about Ubuntu Unity menus locations

On the popular Ubuntu distribution using the Unity desktop environment,
the menus are not part of the application windows, but always displayed
on the top of the screen.

link:../../manual/plugins/virtualbox_ubuntu_64-menu.png.detail.html[image:../../manual/plugins/virtualbox_ubuntu_64-menu.png[Unbuntu
Unity DTE,title="Unbuntu Unity DTE",width=400]]

All the menus shown as part of windows in this manual should appear
there, as shown on the attached screenshot of the WR window active.
Note: KDE does not have this problem.

This default behaviour can be easily changed in 14.04 and newer as
described in
https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/02/ubuntu-desktop-moving-application-menus-back-into-application-windows/[Ubuntu
desktop moving application menus back into application windows].

=== Note about MAC OS menu locations

The situation is similar to Ubuntu above.

=== Note for the users who previously installed the plugin packages manually

Unfortunately, the new packages conflict with the plugins downloaded
originally from opencpn.org. To resolve the conflict, either uninstall
the plugin before using the version from the PPA or open the Terminal
and use the following command to install a plugin:

*sudo apt-get -o Dpkg::Options::=“–force-overwrite” install
opencpn-plugin-<PLUGIN_NAME>*

where *<PLUGIN_NAME>* is the name of the plugin, for example to install
the Weatherfax plugin, the complete command will be:

*sudo apt-get -o Dpkg::Options::=“–force-overwrite” install
opencpn-plugin-weatherfax*

=== Fedora / CentOS

*yum install opencpn-plugin-<PLUGIN_NAME>*

=== OpenSUSE

*All valid plugins are automaticaly installed when installing OpenCPN
generic package.* +
Update is done automatically or via command “sudo zypper up” +
https://en.opensuse.org/OpenCPN[See OpenSUSE wiki]
